# identifying_trending_topics_on_social_media
Determine topics corresponding to trending words in two different social media sites.

This project determines new trending words within a 210 different topics by analyzing the conversations occurring within topic-specific communities on the social media site, Reddit.

Summary:
Word Edge helps its users get the best deals on their google ads purchases. 
Businesses advertising on google ads purchase search terms through an auction. Suppose you wanted to advertise ?Basketball Shoes.? You might want to purchase the search term, ?Basketball Shoes,? but because of it?s popularity it is likely too expensive to be cost effective. 

WordEdge helps users identify the newest trending words in a topic related to their business. WordEdge users can own search terms before they get cool and thus before they get expensive. If you were the basketball shoe seller described above, WordEdge would help you discover inside jokes, acronyms, nicknames for famous players and the names of hot new rookies which would all make great and affordable search term purcahses.

How it Works:
WordEdge determines new trending words by aggregating and analyzing the comments in topic-specific communities on Reddit. 

For example, to find what new topics are trending in Basketball, WordEdge would analyze just the comments in Reddit's Basketball-specific communities r/NBA, r/collegebasketball, r/nbastreams and r/fantasybball etc. 

When a user visits the WordEdge site, http://bit.ly/wordedge, they simply choose their topic of interest, and specify a date range. 

The user is then provided with the 10 most specific and most trending words related to their topic. Additionally, charts are provided so that the user can see how the words? frequency have changed over time. 

Behind the scenes, WordEdge is a fast and scalable ETL pipeline. Reddit comments in JSON format are ingested from the PushShift Reddit API and stored on S3 for distributed consumption by a Spark cluster. 

In Spark, the comments are classified by topic (the list of topics are from the subreddit_topics.csv generated by the subreddit_topics.py script included in this repo) cleaned and split into individual words. Then, each word?s daily frequency and 5-day rolling average frequency are determined for every topic. 

The users choices of topic and date range on the  dash app are converted into a postgreSQL query.

The data are fetched and processed with the Pandas python package to determine the most trending and topic-specific words for the chosen topic over the specified date range. The results and charts are generated by Plotly's Dash app.

